Ulrich Middledorf papers The collection is relevant for studies in sculpture, bronzes, Renaissance medals and applied arts such as costumes, textiles, furniture, and metalwork. The Ulrich Alexander Middeldorf papers contain some correspondence, many clippings, also photographs, postcards, bibliographic and research notes, as well as articles, offprints and annotated books, dating from ca. 1925 -1981. These papers document his research interests and contacts with other art historians and some students. His interests in Italian art, sculpture, medals and the applied arts are evident in the research files which cover costume, architecture, textiles, graphic arts, Italian artists, decorative arts, as well as sculpture and medals. The collection comprises ca. 55 linear ft. Series I. Clippings files, ca. 1925-1981 7.09 Linear Feet
Series contain articles, photographs and other printed images taken from publications, and very occasionally, notes and letters, organized by subject (ca. 9 linear ft.). Subjects include individual costumes, textiles an other minor arts, decorative arts, drawings, sculpture, medals.

Series II. Letters and bibliographic notes, ca. 1925-1981 ca. 2 lin. ft.
Series contains letters from scholars and colleagues and bibliographic notes, most of which were pulled from Middeldorf's books, now in the Getty Research Library. One file of ca. 30 items consists of photocopies of letters between Bernard Berenson and J. Paul Getty, 1956.

Series III. Journals and offprints, ca. 1925-1981 8.5 Linear Feet
Publications sent to and collected by Middeldorf contain articles by colleagues, reviews of books, and articles of interest to Middeldorf for his research.

Series IV. Annotated books, ca. 1925-1981 ca. 7.5 lin. ft.
Series includes items from Middeldorf's library which contain significant or extensive annotations. Annotations are by Middeldorf unless otherwise noted. Also includes some notes, mss and printed matter, including scant correspondence, found in the books in his library.

Series V. Bibliographic files, ca. 1925-1981 117 box(es) ca. 25 lin. ft.
Series comprises a bibliography on index cards, small photographs and postcards organized by subject. Topics include: Italian art and artists, Renaissance medals, minor arts (textiles, wood, ceramics, metal), sculpture, drawings, iconography, decorative arts, art in fiction, architecture, painting, and historiography.