Fototeca Julian Kliemann The originality of Kliemann's photo library lies not only in the presence of phototypes that document sometimes inaccessible frescos, but also in the special thematic arrangement of the materials, which are grouped according to decorative cycles or depicted subjects. This organization is the result of the interests of the scholar who was mainly engaged in research between iconography, criticism of sources, history of society and - to a lesser extent - active in the attributive practices of connoisseurship.
 The scholar’s book collection of roughly 5,000 volumes has been absorbed into the Zeri Library and is currently open to consultation. The collection comprises  2,507 photo objects (silver gelatin prints and negatives in various formats) as well as 1,348 postcards. The folders mainly document fresco cycles reproduced in photos by the best-known art photographers (Fratelli Alinari, Brogi, Noack). Special interest attaches to the photo objects that Kliemann was personally commissioned to produce in order to document the less accessible decorative cycles, entailing originals, unpublished or little known shots.
 Kliemann's photo library began to take on its structure probably at the end of the 1980s, when the scholar intensified his research into history painting and cycles of frescoes with historical subjects between the 15th and 17th centuries. At that time, or at the beginning of the Nineties, date back more than 300 photos mounted on large format cartoons, with wide margins as passe-partouts, accompanied by pencil notes and carefully preserved in custom-made boxes. Once the initial nucleus had been completed, Kliemann did not stop setting up his photographic archive, articulating it according to the most recent study interests: iconographic research on Charles V and Aristotle, studies on artists such as Giorgio Vasari, Federico Zuccari, David Bailly. In early 2018, at the behest of the Carl-Heinz and Helga Kliemann Foundation and his wife Carlotta Fonzi, the photo library that belonged to the scholar was donated to the Federico Zeri Foundation. 
 Folder level description with keywords related to the subjects of postcards and photos stored inside.
